Virtual digital and active representation of an I4.0 component in the I4.0 system---
1. An administration shell contains the manifest and the component manager.
2. Administration shell is synonym to Asset administration shell. ---
Totality of all information in the information world whose validity or up-to-dateness has expired and which can, thus, no longer be changed---
1. Information losing its validity or up-to-dateness is transferred to the archive world.
2. No statement is made regarding the time at which information is transferred from the model world or state world to the archive world---
Combination of elements of a model based on principles and rules for the purpose of its construction, development and utilization---
Representation of a property in information technologies---
State which in the technical context covers among other items functional safety, reliability and IT security.
Note 1: Due to the breadth of this subject area, this term definition will not be treated in greater detail---
Examination/testing of described/ defined requirements for a predefined application or use. Note: A product fulfills the requirements of the customer, i.e. examination according to the customer requirement specifications was successful---
Examinatiоn/testing of the requirements described/defined in the specifications.
Note: A product fulfills the specifications, i.e. examination according to the functional requirement specifications was successful---
Integration within a system which crosses functional/organizational hierarchy level---
Interaction within a system across functional/organizational hierarchy levels---
Related actions of two or more entities. Note: An interaction can be, for example, deterministic, nondeterministic, asynchronous, synchronous, stateful or stateless---
(Self-organizing) interaction between service users in the context of higher-level specifications---
Collaboration between users and technology, such as computers, machines or CPS---
1. Implemented by human- and task-oriented technical systems at the interface between users and technology.
2. Includes the analysis, design and evaluation of such systems.
3. Collaboration synonyms to interaction---
Digital models of the I4.0 component throughout the entire life cycle.
Note 1: The virtual representation is part of the administration shell.
Note 2: The virtual representation can be located in the information layer or in the integration layer of the RAMI4.0.
Note 3: The manifest is part of the virtual representation. ---
Potential of an Industrie 4.0 component to achieve an effect within a domain.
Note 1: Skills can be described as the sum of all properties (see IEC 61360).
Note 2: The comparison between requirements and assurances is realized via properties of the skill.
Note 3: Skill can be orchestrated and hierarchically structured.
Note 4: Capability is often used as synonym to skill.
Note 5: Skills can be made executable via services.
Note 6: The impact manifests in a measurable effect within the physical world---
Characteristic of an item, to adopt it with little effort to changes which were unknown during planning---
Integration within a functional/ organizational hierarchical level across system boundaries---
Interaction within a functional/ organizational hierarchy level across system boundaries---
Interaction, in which the state transition which can be observed is unambiguously determined due to the information received. ---
Structural mapping of applications to resources---
Practical example is the distribution of the contents of an administration shell across different IT systems---
The organizer of self-management and of access to the resources of the I4.0 component. ---
For example, I4.0 component, item, technical functionality, virtual representation.
Note: In many documents, component manager is referred to as resource manager, but the term component manager should be used in future---
Context of application---
Context of application---
Continuous number of processes which an item passes from creation to dissolution. ---
Identity information that unambiguously distinguishes one entity from another one in a given domain.
Note: there are specific identifiers, e.g. UUID Universal unique identifier, IEC 15418 (GS1) ---
Set of properties related to an entity. Note: In a particular domain of applicability, an identity can become a distinguishing identity or an identifier to allow entities to be distinguished or uniquely recognized within that domain---
Term, which represents or designates an individual item or instance---
Flexible connection of individual services for a defined purpose.
Note: This can be done during the planning phase and/or at runtime---
Ability of different components, systems, technologies, or organizations to actively work together for a specific purpose.
Note: Interoperation is collaboration put into practice---
Defined connection point of a functional unit which can be connected to other functional units.
Note 1: “Defined” means that the requirements and the assured properties of this connection point are described.
Note 2: The connection between the interfaces of function units is also called an interface.
Note 3: In an information system, the defined exchange of information takes place at this point.
Note 4: Interface places certain requirements on the connection that is to be made.
Note 5: Interface demands certain features---
Ideas, thought constructs, algorithms, models, and the totality of representations of physical objects and people in a virtual environment.
Note 1: The frame of reference of the totality in question must be defined.
Note 2: The elements of the information world can be related to each other via semantics. ---
Cyber-Physical System which is used in production---
System which links real (physical) objects and processes with information-processing (virtual) objects and processes via open, in some cases global, and constantly interconnected information networks. ---
A CPS optionally uses services available locally or remotely, has human-machine interfaces, and offers the possibility of dynamic adaptation of the system at runtime---
Classification of communication and identification capability---
Request to carry out an action---
Examples are synchronous/ asynchronous, acknowledged/ not acknowledged/with reply, g determ inistic/non-deterministic, stateful/stateless, unicast/multicast/ broadcast---
The manner in which data are exchanged with a participant or the participant can exchange these data and whether the participant exchanges data. ---
Connection between a transmitter/ sender and recipient/receiver which allows the exchange of information---
Specific manifestation of communications---
Engineering tasks over the entire life cycle of a technical system for which the information flow via interfaces is guaranteed preserving:
• consistency of information
• interpretability of information
• traceability of information
Note 1: Tools with digital models simplify the integrated engineering
Note 2: The digital models can be part of an I4.0 component---
Globally uniquely identifiable participant with communication capability consisting of administration shell and asset (corresponds to CP24, CP34 or CP44) within an I4.0 system which there offers services with defined QoS---
1. For its services and data, the 14.0 component offers protection commensurate with the task
2. An I4.0 component can represent a production system, a single machine or station, or even an assembly within a machine---
Additional information from a relationship or an environment that can be taken into consideration---
Externally accessible defined set of meta-information, which provides information about the functional and non-functional properties of the 14.0 component.
Note: The manifest can be regarded as similar to the manifest in computer science. ---
Totality of information currently collected in the information world---
Coherent, sufficiently detailed abstraction of aspects within a field of application. ---
The entirety of all meta documents, plans and descriptions in the information world---
Reference model of basic concepts and contexts which concern a general aspect of systems---
Interaction, in which the state transition that can be observed is not unambiguously determined due to the information receive. Note: This is the case if a system behaves spontaneously in an Interaction, in which the state transition that can be observed is not unambiguously determined due to the information received---
Requirement that does not belong to the actual system function.
Note: Examples are availability, performance, usability, compatibility, maintainability, security---
Paradigm which enables the straightforward exchange, addition or removal of loosely coupled services---
Implementation of a (standardized) communication and system infrastructure with the necessary management and production services and defined QoS (quality of service) characteristics as a basis for the efficient construction and integration of I4.0 systems in an application domain.
Note 1: To ensure interoperability, an I4.0 platform must be based on a reference architecture.
Note 2: An 14.0 platform must define a relation to the 14.0 system. ---
Implementation of a communication and system infrastructure with necessary management and production services and defined QoS (quality of service) characteristics for the efficient construction and integration of CPS for an application domain---
Setting up, modification or termination of interoperation between two or more involved parties with minimal effort.
Note 1: The interoperability of those involved is assumed.
Note 2: The minimum effort can vary depending on the state of the art.
Note 3: Plug&play and plug&produce are synonyms or similar terms. ---
Entity or organization that consumes the service of a provider.
Note 1: An entity or an organization can be a consumer and a provider (both at the same time) ---
Entity or organization that provides a service.
Note 1: An entity or an organization can be a consumer and a provider (both at the same time) ---
Entirety of procedures in a system by means of which the material, energy or information is transformed, transported or stored---
Process from which goods valuable to customers arise.
Note 1: The goods in question may be not only physical in nature (such as raw materials, products) but even intangible (such as knowledge, data, services).
Note 2: Value assessment and pricing are not considered here.
Note 3: Value-creation processes are value activities according to Porter---
Model of a process as a system of coupled part-processes---
Entity which is owned by or under the custodial duties of an organization, having either a perceived or actual value to the organization---
Temporal correctness that has yet to be specified in detail.
Note 1: Response must be given to  events at precisely defined times or events must be triggered at defined times, e. g. not before, not after, or within a specified time interval---
Defined characteristic suitable for the description and differentiation of entities.
Note 1: The concept of type and instance applies to properties.
Note 2: The property types are defined in dictionaries (like IEC Common Data Dictionary or ecl@ss). The property type is also called data element type or property description in some standards.
Note 3: The property instances have a value and they are provided by the manufacturers. A property instance is also called property-value pair in certain standards.
Note 4: Properties include nominal value, actual value, measurement values, etc. ---
A multitude of components that are all related to each other---
Network or system consisting of value-creation chains or value chains which can include not only cross-connections but also dependencies between them---
System, consisting of I4.0 components and components of a lower CP classification, which serves a specific purpose, has defined properties, and supports standardized services and states.
Note 1: A system may be present as a component in a further I4.0 system.
Note 2: An I4.0 system must define a relation to the 14.0 platform.
Note 3: Flexibility, transformability, etc. are features of an I4.0 system. ---
Suggested structure for describing architectural aspects of I4.0 components and I4.0 systems.
Note 1: vertical axis of RAMI4.0.
Note 2: comparable/similar to IIRA viewpoints. ---
Sudden change that can be observed---
Compliant to criteria which are still to be defined (currently no definition of the content exists) ---
Manifestation of the characteristics of an object at a certain point in time.
Note 1: An object can only have one state at any point in time.
Note 2: Statements about a state can be made without any specific reference to a time---
Model for a description of the architecture (for I4.0) which is used generally and is recognized as appropriate (with the character of a reference).
Note: A reference architecture can be defined on the basis of a reference model---
Model which is used generally and is recognized as appropriate (with the character of a recommendation) in order to derive specific models---
Uniquely identifiable item which is managed on account of its importance in the information world---
Conceptual unit formed by abstraction from a set of items by determining the common properties of these items [DIN 2342-1].
Note: A term can be part of a terminology---
Descriptive entity that is characterized by a quantity of common properties and their type---
Specification of required criteria. Note 1: The system can fulfill the required criteria step-by-step, if necessary---
Produced or manufactured (intermediate) product which in a smart factory delivers the (outward) communication capability to network and to interact intelligently with other production participants.
Note 1: The product is a produced or manufactured article or semi-finished product.
Note 2: A digital image is part of the product intelligence and can be localized on the product itself but also spatially separate from it.
Note 3: Unique identification and product-related information makes it possible for the product to be linked to the smart factory---
Factory whose degree of integration has reached a level which makes self-organizing functions possible in production and in all business processes relating to production.
Note: The virtual representation of the factory makes intelligent decisions possible. The aim is to increase efficiency, effectiveness, flexibility and/or adaptability---
Dialogue between smart factory and smart product---
Demarcated scope of functionality which is offered by an entity or organization via interfaces.
Note: One or multiple operations can be assigned to one service---
The totality of all actually existing items and individuals.
Note 1: The real world corresponds to the physical world.
Note 2: Software loaded or in memory is part of the physical world.
Note 3: The frame of reference of the totality in question must be defined---
Sequence of value-creation processes (linear or hierarchical, formally this means directed acyclically).
Note: Corporate boundaries are not necessarily relevant to a value- creation chain or value chain---
Definition 1: Virtual digital representation of physical assets. For more information, see Notes 10 and 11.
Definition 2: Simulation model---
1. In future, the digital twin will be a synonym for the asset administration shell if the development will continue as before.
2. In the context of Industrie 4.0, the term asset administration shell is preferred---
Specific entity which has the properties and manifestations of a type. ---
Loose community of various autonomous players connected in a network with a common goal of creating products and/or services based on a (standardized) communication and system infrastructure---
1. Players can be participants of the value-added system as well as educational or research institutions, political units, standardization organizations or associations.
2. Within an ecosystem, players can be engaged at the same time both in cooperation and in competition.
3. An ecosystem is characterized by a common further development (co-evolution) of the players and the ecosystem---
Unit which exists objectively, is demarcated and identifiable.
Note 1: An item can be virtual or physical in nature.
Note 2: An item can be a device, subsystem, software program, plan, living organism, organization or the like.
Note 3: An item has a life cycle.
